# Testing remarks

Testing is primarily done using a technique called [snapshot testing](https://tophat.github.io/syrupy/) using a library
called syrupy.

Snapshot testing is where you save correct results and get notified by a failing test whenever your snapshot is
different from the initially verified output.

This type of testing is meant to verify that your output is as it is intended and to catch regressions!

## How we use snapshot testing to verify rendered PDFs stay the same after code changes

So in our case, we render all pages of a pdf as jpg images and hash the contents.
When we write a test-case, it should be red. Once we have verified that the generated pdf looks good, we run
`pytest --snapshot-update` to tell `syrupy` to create a snapshot of the rendered pdf hash.

Every time our tests are run afterward, syrupy will render the pdf as JPEGs again, hash the contents and compare them to
the verified-by-hand snapshots we made with `pytest --snapshot-update`. If the hash changed, that means that our output changed.

In some cases, changed output is desired, in others it's not.

## Running tests

Simply run `pytest` in the root directory.

## Updating snapshots

You only need to ever update snapshots when either

1. You added a new test and you have verified that the pdf is rendered correctly
2. You change the way a ReMarkable notebook is rendered, in this case you need to look at **ALL** PDFs

To update snapshots, run `pytest --snapshot-update`

## Directory structure

We have a "tests" directory where test data is stored. Each folder represents an exported ReMarkable notebook file.

- `tests/in` stores ReMarkable notebook files. Each directory represents one notebook
- `tests/out` is a directory which stores the PDF and markdown files generated by remarks.
  This directory can be cleared whenever you wish.
